>> Brian Holt: Think the first thing to
say is congratulations, for many of you,
you probably just wrote your
first bit of code, right?
That is executing in a browser.
So you can see here if you've seen
that 6,000 you are having code that is
successfully being run in the browser.
And everything we're gonna do is
just kind of variations thereof.
I mean, variables are kind of the most
fundamental concepts of programming in
general.
So this is really great,
this is good progress.
>> Brian Holt: So that's what
this is right here, this console.
Whenever I say console.log here,
wherever my experiments.js is,
whenever you do that,
this gets output here into
this console in your browser.
This is very useful for
debugging purposes.
Cuz if you're going through and you're
writing something, and something's not
going the way that you expect it,
you can put a console.log in there.
It's like, what is actually contained
in this variable at this point, right?
So if I come down here and say,
let's just make this let for a second.
And say, yearlyRent = 1, right?
What do you think is gonna
be output their on line 4?
So if I go check my browser .what do you
think is gonna be put into the console?
>> Speaker 2: 1?
>> Speaker 3: 6,000.
>> Brian Holt: Still gonna be 6,000.
And saying that's gonna be 1
is a totally valid thought.
I try not to trick people, that was
definitely a trick question, so sorry.
>> Speaker 3: I deserved it.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, first of all,
I hate teachers that try and trick you and
give you trick questions,
so I hate myself right now.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: So
you have to remember this is
executed procedurally, right?
So this goes from line 1,
line 2, line 3, line 4.
And line 4 here, when line 4 executes,
yearlyRent was 6,000, right?
And so now if I go down here and
say console.log(yearlyRent) again,
it'll say 6,000, then it'll say 1, right?
>> Brian Holt: As I said, this is very
useful for debugging purposes, right?
And when I say debugging,
what I mean is fixing my broken shit.
[LAUGH] That's what I actually mean here.
>> Brian Holt: So to this day,
I use console.log probably
dozens of times a day.
There are other more
sophisticated debugging tactics.
And I eschew all of them in order just
to debug things by putting them out into
the console.
Okay, any questions about that?
>> Brian Holt: Another thing
that's kinda useful here.
So let's say I was confused
about both monthlyRent and
yearlyRent, I can put actually,
monthlyRent, yearlyRent.
So notice this is a comma right there.
And you can see here now
if I refresh the page.
By the way, when I refresh the page,
I'm hitting Cmd+R,
in Windows it's F5 or you can just click
this little rotationally thing there.
>> Speaker 3: Ctrl+R works too.
>> Brian Holt: Does it?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: I did not know that,
that's cool.
And it's forcing the code to reexecute,
right?
If I don't refresh the page,
then the code does not reexecute.
Now notice here that I have 500 and
600, so
it's actually logging out both
monthlyRent and yearlyRent, right?
So it's useful you can put
multiple things in there.
I was just showing you here that if
you wanna see both monthlyRent and
yearlyRent on the same line, you can
just separate them by commas, right?
And then that way you can see
here that I'm doing 500 and 600.
So monthlyRent is 500, right?
And yearlyRent is 600, right?
>> Brian Holt: So that's useful for
debugging as well.